There are two kinds of communications
that you want to engage in
while you're working
through a data analysis.
This lecture talks about the more routine
kinds of communications that you do on
a day to day basis.
Communication is fundamental
to good data analysis.
That's because data analysis
is a highly verbal process and
requires regular back and forth and
discussion to move the process forward.
In this kind of setting, both informal and
formal communications are very important
and you want to be able to coordinate
communication between members or
with yourself to make sure that
the process is constantly moving forward.
In this lecture, I will talk more about
the kind of routine communications and
the purposes of those routine
communications as the data
analysis project moves forward.
Routine communication is an important tool
for performing any good data analysis and
it's important to realize that
communication is both a tool and
a product of data analysis.
Ultimately, when you've completed
a data analysis project,
you're gonna wanna communicate your
findings and your results to an audience.
That's communication as a product but
as you go through the whole process,
you want there to be constant
communication and dialog so
that you can assess findings and
challenge them constantly
to make sure that you get
the best results that you can.
Any good data analyst
is gonna be engaged in
regular informal communication multiple
times through the data analysis process.
They're also gonna keep in mind the way
in which the ultimate results can be
communicated to a wider audience and think
about what's the best way to do that.
It's important to ensure that
the people in the data science team or
the analysts stay on task with these
two basic communication goals.
The basic purpose of a routine
communication is to gather information,
you gathered communication by
communicating your results and
by taking in the responses
from your audience.
Hopefully, that will inform the next
steps of your data analysis.
The form that a routine communication
takes depends on the goal or
what kind of information
needs to be collected.
For example, you might need an answer to
a very focused and technical question,
it's often just a clarification or about
the details of a data set or a model.
Ultimately, you want to
gather a single fact.
At the next level, you might want to
get some feedback about results that
are puzzling or unexpected as you
were analyzing your data set.
In the last level, you may not have
any specific question whatsoever but
you want to gather information
about the overall process and
get some first impressions and
feedback about what you're doing, so
you can refine your data
analysis even further.
It's important to kind of classify
the purpose of a given communication and
to provide the appropriate environment and
audience for that communication.
Just a few quick examples.
For example, when you're at a narrow
level, you might want to say
clarify the coding of a variable
because maybe the metadata's unclear.
Maybe if a variable is labeled zero or
one, you may not know what it means
by zero and what is meant by one.
There may be a specific person that you
can talk to to answer that question and
the communication will be very brief and
to the point and
the answer will just be a single fact,
essentially.
At the next level, you might be
doing exploratory data analysis and
you are looking at the data and you see
something that's really unexpected,
remember it's part of the EDA process.
You always set your expectations for
what the data should look like and
then when you look at the data or
you make a plot or a table and
it doesn't look like what you expected,
and you can't quite explain,
it you may need to communicate
that to a person or
a group of people in order to get
some feedback or answers about that.
This might take the form or
an informal meeting with a few people
to present some preliminary tables or
figures, you may need to show
the data in terms of visualizations.
At the highest level,
you may have reached a major milestone, or
maybe you've developed a primary model,
and
you want to get some feedback
on what you've done so far.
Part of this is just this idea that you
always wanna be checking to see that you
haven't missed anything, you wanna be
challenging your results all the time.
This may require a slightly larger
audience, maybe a team meeting or
a group meeting,
where you present your results and
get some feedback on what you've done so
far.
There are a couple of just core
concepts that are important for
any type of routine communication
that you wanna think about.
The first, of course, is the audience.
To the extent that you might be able to
control the audience that you present to,
you wanna make sure that you have
the right people or the right person, so
that you can get the most efficient
answers to your question.
It's important to know your audience and
make sure you've got the right people
in the room to get the right feedback.
The next thing to think
about is the content.
It's important to be prepared,
so that you can be focused and
concise about what you're trying to say or
what you're trying to communicate.
But also it's important to
provide sufficient information so
that the audience can understand where
you're coming from and where you're going.
Especially, if you have
an interdisciplinary type of audience,
you wanna make sure that everyone's on
the same page at the very beginning.
As far as the style is concerned, I
generally find it useful to avoid a lot of
jargon because as soon as the audience
grows to more than just a few people, it's
likely that different people will have
different expertise, and different skills.
You're not gonna want to use
very technical jargon that will
only be understood by a small
subset of people, try to
use language that'll be understandable
to a broader range of people.
Try to design your figures and
tables so that people with a broad
background will be able to understand
what's going on in those figures and
tables with just a little
bit of explanation.
Finally, it's just your attitude
when it comes to communication,
and it's important to have an open and
collaborative attitude so the audience
is fully engaged in giving you feedback
and helping you out with your analysis.
The point is not really to think about
yourself as defending the analysis but
rather to work to get their input so
you can do your best work.
This is a basic sketch of
kind of routine communication
as you're going through
the data analysis process.
This may be something that you
do without much thinking but
actually, it's a very important
part of the data analysis process.
It's important that the communication
works between team members,
between managers and team members and
that it's a continuous process to get
feedback and
improve the quality of data analysis.